good evening good afternoon
hello world as we used to say at the
beginning of the internet i'm going to
start by reading a short passage
from woody holton's unruly americans
this is a book that has gotten mentioned
a great deal on my youtube channel
lately and it is a book that i've quoted
in writing my own
strange volume i'm writing a book right
now that is titled
no more manifestos i would just mention
the discussion of the history and
present political implications
of the american constitution has got to
be the least
popular topic on my youtube channel and
i don't get it if you look at the videos
i have discussing
woody holton's book and i did several
close succession because i've been doing
so much reading and research lately
about the american constitution
uh they get fewer views than my
discussion of the politics of belarus
the politics of chile the politics of
china
out in xinjiang and so on right like
i've covered some pretty
obscure political topics on my channel
and uh it's
strange to me you know the american
constitution
influenced the writing of basically
every other
constitution in the world as it now
exists it influenced the writing of the
japanese constitution and of communist
china's constitution and so on
it is not you know it is not purely an
american affair
um by any means and you know obviously
it seems to me 2021 is a year when there
ought to be especially profound um
introspection about the american
constitution and
you know as i keep saying what next what
now
now i'll just uh before we dispatch your
mention you know i have had some email
back and forth with
professor woody holton i very much
appreciate his uh taking the time
but that also i mean i feel a certain
connection to you and fondness for the
book
if you look him up on youtube you'll get
to hear him stating his opinion although
most
of the youtube videos are fully 10 years
old
uh one of the main sentiments i
expressed to him
in correspondence is this in case you
haven't picked this up from my
my youtube videos dealing with these
issues either directly or tangentially
you know it's really false to assume
that the elite are wrong about something
just because they are the elite and it
is wrong to assume that the poor and the
oppressed are correct
something in politics just because they
are uh
porno pressed now i also know
there's a rule here that the very best
anthropologists are familiar with
unfortunately i can't say
as any good anthropologist would know
anthropology is a field in a in part a
powerless condition
21st century paulus parliament uh
but you know if i if i were to talk to
you about the politics of
thailand and i said you will you know in
thailand there is this
small american educated economic elite
there are these people who are wealthy
and they own the shopping malls
and they partly got inspired by going to
america and seeing what american
shopping
thailand has much better shopping malls
in the united states america
i am not a shopping mall aficionado
but still you know if you were to say
well there is this kind of pro-democracy
uh american-educated and culturally
americanized elite in thailand
and here's their agenda here's what they
want um in the current debates in
thailand about how they're going to
rewrite the constitution
how many constitutions have been written
in thailand during my lifetime
in which they are more or less
constantly drafting a new constitution
in thailand because it's happened again
and again and again
nobody in this audience would suppose oh
well these must be terrible people
the people whose opinion about politics
matters are the poor and downtrodden
farmers
it must be that we get out to the rice
paddies it must be that we get out and
talk to the most illiterate
most backward people in the remote
hinterland we have to ask them
what the constitution should be and what
the future of the country you know uh
politically should be
they must be the benighted
be knighted in every sense the word you
know they must be the people gifted with
some kind of
uh benevolent attitude and profound
insight about how politics and country
ought to work
now given that we would not see the
politics of thailand this way
given that we certainly would not see
the politics of afghanistan this way
or iran when you look at iran we seem to
only care about the western knife of one
percent of the population
those people we think have enlightened
attitudes about what the past present
future of iran ought to be
why when we look at our own uh history
we have this very peculiar anti-elitist
bias oh i'm just gonna
you know my you know my steez i keep it
all the way real
this is something i had to go out of
myself you know i think it's
i'm canadian i utterly despise elite
canadian culture i've i have no respect
whatsoever
for someone who was born the child of
wealthy landlord parents in toronto
like their parents own apartment
buildings and collect their rhyme from
those apartments
and it went through uh one of our elite
law schools
uh you know in downtown toronto and then
served a role at queen's park and so i
have absolutely
no respect for those people i even i
even have some very active disrespect
for those people
and you know although canada is not a
hotbed of rebellion
i think the vast majority of people feel
the same way i do there is a you know
this is also i mean frankly this is one
of the characteristics i would say of
the majority of american culture
democrat or republican it's so
widespread that people don't
question it sort of healthy contempt for
elites
you know characterizes all of america
very different from british culture
you know that someone within a refined
accent an elite education representing
the city representing london england
that an elite barrister in london
has some kind of social status and
respect and so on
uh you know that um in american society
i mean i really think that's fair to say
you know whether you're talking about
the state of michigan or the state of
texas
i think there is a kind of healthy
contempt for people from elite
backgrounds where it's like well
you know maybe you have something to
teach me maybe you know something i
don't but you haven't proved it yet
let's see what you're made of
um now there are doubles you know
disadvantages to this this
attitude also you know i have to say
growing up in the culture that i did in
canada
having no respect for the elite no
respect for my own teachers who were
terrible people no respect for my
professors
who were with almost no exceptions
terrible people you know um having
nobody to look up to
in this particular society which evolved
in the shadow of slavery and genocide
and my generation could never forget it
you know i having grown up in the shadow
of the anglican church
that nobody believes in i mean if you
think catholicism
was discredited in my generation talk
about british anglicanism the status of
the anglican church in canada
or in england itself it's you know level
of esteem has fallen much much lower
so you have um a very different
relationship between the the social
strata than what you have for example in
communist china let alone uh let alone
england so you have this to begin with
it certainly was a habit of mind i had
as a young man both in looking at
canadian politics and when i was first
getting involved in the politics of
thailand the politics of cambodia
the politics of laos and so on that you
would look at this situation with the
assumption
that the people at the periphery whether
that's
literally and geographically the rural
periphery the farmers
living in poverty on the cusp or people
who were just uh
part of the downtrodden poor that
somehow those are the people whose
political opinion matters
and whatever it was that was being said
by the elite
must reflect some kind of
self-interested conspiracy
that ought to be uh rebuffed or scoffed
at
as you know mirror mere self-serving
nonsense
so you know there's a certain bias and
okay in some other context i might say
that this were a stereotypically
left-wing bias
typical it is right now the right way
the whole donald
trump rested on the shoulders of you
know a generation of americans
some just for rednecks
who were willing to say willing to
presume that everything said on the news
was some kind of you know tissue of lies
that everything everything said
by an authority figure whether it be a
university professor
or you know an elite educational
establishment
uh elites connected to practice of
medical science
you know elites explicitly or implicitly
connected to the the political structure
of life
this scoffing at elite figures and
presuming
that they have their own self-interested
reasons to say whatever they say that
they're they're only saying something
because it's going to make more money
for a corporation like pfizer or
madarina you know that
they represent big farms on that runs
really deep in the 21st century
both on the left and on the right so
anyway this is a digression
and yet very much the point when i wrote
to uh
professor woody holton the main thing i
said to him
was apart from giving him the link to my
video which he watched i'm glad he found
the time to watch it
the main thing i said to him was look we
really make a profound error in judgment
when we presume that the elite are wrong
just because
they're elite or we presume that the
poor are right
just because they are poor just because
they are the oppressed
you know i think we all have a sense
that you ought to make a special effort
to listen to the voices of the oppressed
because they're oppressed because if you
don't listen
if you don't make that effort they're
not going to have this kind of
institutional force and broadcasting
behind them
um but nevertheless
you know they can be 110 wrong and he
replied to me
i i'm not going to disclose the details
of anyone's private response
but he didn't reply to me thoughtfully
and saying well you know now in 2021
after the events of january 6 2021
happened
we all have to really you know as i said
we have to kind of re-examine our
positive
bias in favor of poor and uneducated
farmers so i mean
i'm guessing that in the social circles
he moves in uh
where i mean okay if you're a career if
you're a career university professor in
the united states of america
how much time do you spend with farmers
how much time do you spend talking
politics with high school dropouts how
often do you meet someone who
unironically goes to church
you know there's a there's a whole range
of political perspectives
that you may be willingly or unwillingly
you know blind to
those are not the people you meet that's
not people listen so hey guys um
i just see some questions from the
audience uh what a totally reasonable
question
let's say you'll like this isil what do
you make of the whole situation with the
uyghurs in concentration camps in china
and someone has said oh google xinjiang
on his channel and you'll get some
videos so yes
i have made several videos with that and
we have the world's most slow-moving
research project on it which is
discussed in an earlier live stream we
have a stack of books here
we're going to present but yes you will
find that i have my own
shockingly unique and original
perspective on that that rather
challenges
uh what the mainstream media has been
chewing on for the past uh several years
um speaking of speaking of revivaling
the mainstream media is nothing but
nothing but the issue of lies look the
reality is you can't be an expert in
everything
i didn't say anything about this in the
last video um i remember the first time
i met
a young woman with a master's degree who
had just returned from xinjiang
she might have not yet received her
message but she was doing her
m.a research in the field in xinjiang i
heard her give a lecture and i talked to
her directly afterwards that was my
first
that was probably the first time i ever
really heard of were talking about
xinjiang
that was when i was in toronto about
that kind of put in my mind when i was
at cambridge england i spoke to
there's one i really remember speaking
to but maybe there were two researchers
connected to synthetics one guy spoke to
it like they've been living there and
learning the language
talking to people and doing uh doing
research and then i was physically
in china when the xinjiang stabbing
olympics
happened when there were riots and
stabbings on the streets and i saw the
chinese government response to that so
at that time
so there were many points in my life
that you know peaked to my
i always said uh i would not list it in
my top 10
research interests but it is something i
have been interested in reading about
for much of my adult life intermittently
to say the
least when i wasn't studying cambodia or
laos or
history of genocide and canada the
american constitution these other things
we're talking about
uh but the people who work for
nbc and abc and the ppc most of these
they don't they don't even have my level
of background so if you want to say that
i'm an interested amateur and dealing
with xinjiang and the politics of
western china and central asia
nevertheless if you add up all the hours
and you add up the number of brain cells
devoted to this
um you know you have to recognize most
of the people playing this game they
have not put in any of that
any of that time but yeah i don't know i
mean i seriously suggested to my
girlfriend melissa that the two of us
could take on a kind of research project
in central asia
i have sent emails to universities in
central asia
proposing the idea that we actually
moved there that we would go and live
there for a time
not xinjiang itself that would be
politically impossible but just over the
border into those adjacent central
asian countries i think at 42 i'm 42
years old now
i think i think it might be too late for
me to go out and boldly strike out
i don't i don't know if i can do again
in xinjiang what i once did in cambodia
put it that way but you know it's it's
something
i take seriously and you know we've
we've talked about it take it seriously
and look compared to other well hey
we're just talking about attitudes
towards
uh economic and educational elites what
would be more meaningful
if i went and opened a small hotel in
central asia
it doesn't matter that much for me
uzbekistan or kurdistan but you know we
can say
kyrgyzstan not that my pronunciation is
great
you know but if for me to go and open
and operate a small hotel there and
learn chinese and teach chinese and and
make youtube videos about politics
or to study and pass the bar here and
become a lawyer
in western canada what do you think
would be a more meaningful use of the
next five years of my life
you don't have to answer we're not going
to have a poll we're not going to vote
my point is even if this were a terrible
idea it's better than a lot of other
supposedly self-evidently good ideas
that people entertain and you can learn
a lot you can learn a lot while not
being
you know while not being formally
enrolled in any uh educational program
okay and in my experience at the
opposite it's incredibly hard to find a
formal educational program
in which you will learn anything at all
okay so quoting uh woody holton
in unruly americans you'll see why i'm
quoting this passage this is just
in the last few pages of the book quote
anyone who has broken off a chunk of the
past and thoroughly scrutinized it
will tell you the same thing it always
turns out that the truth of the matter
is hidden
under a thick coat of communist
perceptions
what is striking about the genesis of
the constitution is that the confusion
is not limited to the ill informed
indeed
a different set of myths seem to conceal
the framers motives
at every level of expertise
a 100 donation from the peanut gallery
quote hi isil got a question for you
is it worth to promote politics nihilism
etc
through fiction to young adults okay
great question i'm going to continue
reading this passage and i'll come back
and uh
i'll come back and discuss further what
your questions about
by the way it is not 100 us dollars it's
100 of some foreign currency i
i know not the name of could be russian
rubles
no but thank you for the donation i'll
i'll just continue reading this
you'll see this book it doesn't rely on
he doesn't rely on a great deal of so
shall we say rhetorical fireworks
but he has some nice turns of phrase
here uh in the conclusion
americans who spend the least time
thinking about the constitution
often confuse it with either the
declaration of independence or the bill
of rights
i.e these are in fact three very
different things they credit the framers
with a passionate urge to safeguard
civil liberties such as gun rights
and freedom of religion and speech
authors who mention the constitution of
passing for instance
in the biographies of the founders and
in school textbooks
avoid that error they say the dragon the
framers were trying to slay
was the weakness of the federal
government under the articles of
confederation
that view is not wrong but we will never
fully understand why the constitutional
convention was held
until we grasped the full implications
of james madison's october 1787
assertion
that the quote-unquote mutability and
injustice of the laws of the states
had contributed more to that uneasiness
which produced the convention
and prepared the public mind for general
reform than those which accrued to our
national character and interest
from the inadequacy of the confederation
close quote
a growing number of historians of the
constitution acknowledged that one of
its architect's most pressing goals
was to transfer certain key
responsibilities from the state
legislatures to a new national
government
capable of resisting pressure from below
some scholars go still further
showing that the framers anti-democratic
ideology was rooted in their disgust at
the damage state governments
had allegedly done to the economy but
most of these historians who focused on
the elitist character of the
constitution
commit an important error of their own
mistaking the federalists biased
assessment of the crisis
that led to the constitution for reality
suppose if you've read the whole book
you know
there was a great deal of propagandizing
involving
including and not limited to outright
lies about what really was uh
what really was going on what what were
the reasons for what what the
constitution promised and what
she said the federalist papers for
example
if you are reading the federalist papers
you are reading propaganda now that
doesn't mean it's of no value but in one
of the most famous
uh books on this topic uh written by
this guy
written by bernard balen so bernard
balin's book written in his youth
what it was on the ideology of the
american revolution
it was a collection of pamphlets
used in the american revolution so
people have a strange and
unsophisticated view of this
if you're going to analyze political
pamphlets you know during a revolution
at all times or you know in the lead up
to a revolution
you know this to say it's a biased
source is an understatement and the
federalist papers likewise are
incredibly biased and these are
presented in high school classrooms and
everything else in an
unbelievably unsophisticated way so i'm
i'm here obviously digressing from the
text of quoting but
i'm filling in with something that
something the reader might already know
or appreciate
uh when they got to the well they got
this point uh in the text i don't know
i i i continue my quotation in the
damage they do
to american civic life these writers
surpassed the amateurs and the
ill-informed
during the 1780s they say some of the
most prominent men in the nation
accused the american farmer of proving
himself incapable
of running the country and the farmer
was guilty as charged
the framers carved this accusation of
plebeian incompetence
into the cornerstone of the evidence
great one verbal type before
the framers carved this accusation of
plebeian incompetence
into the cornerstone of the edifice they
constructed in philadelphia
and although the document has been
amended the attitude that spawned it
has not today americans exude immense
pride in the democratic republic
but beneath that surface sentiments lurk
ah heated up he needed a hyphen there
beneath that surface sentiment
lurk nagging feelings not only that you
can't fight city hall but that you
shouldn't
since we all know what happens when
ordinary folk get their hands on the
levers of power
those at least are the messages conveyed
both by the structure of the federal
government
which was also the model used in
subsequent revisions of the state
constitutions
and by the history lessons that
buttressed it so just going to uh
just going to uh digress here to mention
we've been reading a couple of the state
constitutions
and uh
yeah well look guys i mean i don't know
who is still
who is motivated to come and uh
come in and troll this comment section
have you read the book um you know
as as this youtube channel becomes more
and more erudite and tone maybe we'll
get a higher and higher quality of uh
of uh troll coming in to disrupt us to
disrupt us in more and more
inspirational
and destructive ways um anyway you know
when you look at the state constitutions
um it's interesting to note the first
was the constitution of massachusetts
so for those who are not american boston
is the leading city of massachusetts and
it was an important place in the
revolutionary period
it's still a somewhat important place
today but not as important as it was
back then
um massachusetts
just for the state just for the state
their house of representatives
had about 400 people in it at the time
of the
the time of the constitution in this era
and it grew and grew
to have more than 700 people in it so
just at the state
level to have 400 people representation
by population
rep by pop as we say in canada and then
as the population grew and the number of
towns grew
um they had 700 people meeting to
express the will of the local farmers
what have you
so that was an idea of democracy very
different
from the federal constitution of the
united states of america
which began with only 65 people there
were only 65 representatives
in the house of congress so just the
state of massachusetts which is really
built around the unique economy of
boston at that time
400 growing to 700 as opposed to at a
national scale
you know uh only only 65 people so i
mean
uh quantitative differences have
qualitative significance when are we
talking about a democracy and what are
we talking about
what aristotle would call an oligarchy
and indeed an aristocratic
oligarchy at that um you know how many
thousands if you have the same
ratio of representation obviously there
are thousands of thousands of people
um in the american house of congress
which could also be a terrible system of
government incidentally
but yeah uh these are uh these are
interesting questions that are both
asked
and that americans refuse to ask
themselves in looking back at this this
period of history
as i said in an earlier video why is it
that the american constitution is less
democratic
than the 13 state constitutions a
challenge and every place and why is it
less democratic than the ancient
constitutions
of athens of rome you can pick your own
i i think it's even less democratic than
say uh
you know medieval florence and venice
and so on
sparta is a more interesting debate to
get to is america more or less
democratic than sparta
and whose version of sparta are we
evaluating at least
at least in sparta they had a vote
before going to war
right it was a democratic decision for
whether or not to start the war
so there was there was more democracy in
sparta than you might think there was no
vote
in the united states americans before
the start of the war in iraq or the
start of the war in afghanistan there's
no vote now
at the end either we're not going to
have a referendum
uh on the war no nor did ever at any
point in the united states mark okay
final paragraph from this little passage
of mark death right here
quote of course the safeguards against
grassroots pressure that were built into
the american political system
are much less rigid than those found in
countries that do not even claim to be
republics
on the other hand they are considerably
more insidious
the framers designed the federal
government to be much less accessible
than it seems
as zephaniah swift put it in 1792
let me just say one of the delights of
this book is just the names if you're
looking for good baby names
you should buy this book you want to get
into your kid zephaniah
or adonijah they're all these great
revolutionary era names that have
disappeared
they haven't just disappeared from the
english language they disappeared from
the hebrew language a lot of these are
like garbled hebrew names
as zephaniah swift put it in 1792
ordinary americans are quote told that
nothing
confines them close quote and yet
they remain impounded
the sinister beauty of the constitution
in particular
the immensity of congressional districts
is that when citizens find they cannot
influence national legislation
their tendency is not to curse the
system
but to blame themselves i'm going to
read that
sentence one more time not a lot of
rhetorical fireworks in this book but
that is a nice moment
he left for the very end of the volume
this is not the last page
but this is the the concluding uh
concluding few
pages the sinister beauty of the
constitution
in particular the immensity of
congressional districts
is that when citizens find they cannot
influence national legislation
their tendency is not to curse the
system but to blame
themselves
oh so here's here's an interesting
question so guys i will come back to the
question from creative nothing
uh but i've said at this moment it'd be
nice to answer some questions directly
related
to what i've just read you from woody
holden's book frida asks
to what extent was their racist
migration policy
to have a preference for northern
european center of the u.s shaping
american democracy
right well so i've got a book you
haven't read yet but
this is really the book on that topic
and maybe it is not
honest enough so the subtitle for this
one is the peopling of british north
america 1600 1675
so even that phrase the peopling of
so you know the active genocidal
elimination of the indigenous people and
the active importing
of different types of europeans
now let's ask a further question uh what
about the level of education
of the white europeans who are being
imported and this is one of the
trickiest things to measure of all
the level of education of the europeans
who remained
in north america because there were
highly educated europeans who came
from england to the united states for
example and a lot of them went back
you know you can imagine if you're a
lawyer or if you're any any kind of a
person with a with a successful career
and you're highly educated medical
doctor you might try your luck
you come from england out to the
colonies the same way many went to say
india
another difficult and dangerous calling
you might stay for five years 10 years
or 15 years
and then once you had the whether you'd
saved up some money or you'd lost all
your money you'd go back to england
so you were disproportionately getting
the roughest uh the least educated and
the most brutal
you know sort of people who were coming
and staying but you know um
the other thing to remember freda is
we're talking about an era
when there was no formal education
none and by the way not even for medical
doctors
um look into how medicine was taught how
people wrote the exams to certify
themselves the medical doctors in that
era
even to become a naval surgeon which was
about the most verified form of surgeon
in the british empire was to to say hey
i've the i have the paperwork to perform
surgery on behalf of the british navy
um it was a joke you could just study
independently and show up and write
an exam and there were some embarrassing
revelations that you could study for
about two weeks
and know everything you needed to know
to write that exam so
formal education didn't exist so when
you say oh well what
like if if you're asking about the
ethnicity of people
who settle north america really what
you're getting at is their traditions
culturally and the type of education
they have largely
just through talking to their own
grandparents going to church
and what have you and indeed reading the
english book of common prayer
this sort of thing so yeah that was even
more important at that time because of
the weakness of or total absence of
book learning among the particular
combination of what your pants
but yeah one of the things i know that
bernard balon is interested in this book
and again he was about 90 years old when
he wrote this so he's an old man at the
end of a long and
successful career i'm not his i'm not
his biggest fan i'm
i am a much bigger fan of woody holden
here um
[Music]
americans often are in denial about the
extent to which they were german
and things like that but they weren't
all british that it was a very strange
assembly
melissa herself you have the map of the
united states written all over your face
melissa
that's an old prank you you you with the
map of ireland written all over your
face that's the old that's the old
saying
so i'm saying melissa you know you i.e
you carry the american character in your
in your face
but melissa is a mix of northern
european and german and you have
some english in you yes what percentage
of you is is
english from england 25
not bad it's more more than i would have
gambled on
anyway we all share this kind of phony
british empire
identity but um you know again it's
circus 1600 to 1675
and given that people had so little
access to book learning
uh no it's it's it's of terrible crucial
importance
now sorry the other contrast i want to
make i don't have the book series
but i don't have to hold up every book i
mention um but you know i am very
interested in machiavelli
and the separate oh we had a hummingbird
at the window it's already gone
the separate but powerfully related
history of
uh democracy and renaissance italy
well think about all the all the things
you can take for granted in renaissance
italy
or even on the tiny island of of cyprus
that people really do have a common
language a common education
common sort of sense of hierarchy um
common sense of cultural values and
those will
i mean in the case of italy they partly
did
take pride in democracy they partly did
take pride in the idea of the republic
and they saw no contradiction in being
devout catholics
and supporting this idea of democracy
and republic
that's what that's how they saw their
culture they felt that that was their
unique
uh fusion of elements like they were
aware they weren't
you know they weren't living in
jerusalem they weren't they didn't
represent israeli
civilization or something like this um
they didn't represent the old testament
culture in that sense that they
represented this from their perspective
continuous culture
of republics and democracies that had
fused with the judeo-christian tradition
and this powerful that was that was
their sense of pride and joy
so they expressed this for example and
um again completely unironically
um saying that particular christian
saints
were the patron saints of their system
of democracy and of their constitution
which is completely fictional i mean by
the way guys
you might or might not know this but um
the
the myth for europeans uh to explain the
existence
of the aristocracy was that they were
the people uh
who had fought um in uh the
the battle of troy so you know most of
you will be aware there is this myth
about the trojan horse
and the helen of troy like you'll have
some vague memory of this
well why did that matter why is that
famous in places like france that are
very far removed from
well the myth was that the aristocrats
the reason they were different from
normal people was that they were the
descendants of the heroes
who fought the trojan war i'd
i mean if you think it's where is it
more ridiculous in russia or france or
germany
but people lived with a lot of this
mythology
that allowed them to uh kind of render
sacred in a christian sense a totally
pagan tradition of
uh republicanism and democracy materials
that were there for someone like
machiavelli were very very different
from joseph
america but oh right and so the other
people we've left it here are the dutch
and you know some some of the positive
characteristics i mean i don't want to
go to great length here
but some of the distinctive positive
characteristics of american democracy
that set it apart from medieval italy
douglas
uh came from the dutch including for
example the reluctance to just torture
people to death
because people were really being
tortured to death in that period of
italy the whole
the whole catholic world um now
protestants killed lots of people too
don't get me wrong these were very
brutal empires
but some of the hygienic conceptions and
uh enlightened conception of government
that the dutch were extreme and promotes
that that you know
modern hygiene was basically invented in
the netherlands it's a funny story but
the
the idea of washing your hands the idea
that disease is transmitted by touch
um the the the people of the low
countries what i'm going to call them
the people of the netherlands that was
really where a lot of that began
and they had their own response to the
french revolution
and prior to the french revolution they
had their own real discourse
going on in many ways they were a failed
world empire they didn't become a great
world empire the way england and uh and
france did and so on
but sure there were another important
component there so yeah sorry that's a
long answer to to a short question but
yeah i mean if you if you want to get
serious about it there's there's a
question of how the american character
emerged out of those um
[Music]
components or ingredients and they were
being mixed together
in a context where everyone everyone had
blood in their hands from the ongoing
genocidal wars everyone had blown their
hands from slavery
um and even the people who were trying
not to i mean really boston was the
source the center of anti-slavery
activism and their their own
constitution rejected slavery and they
they declared themselves a freeport and
so on
but you know then people were tainted
that way also you sort of
even if you were opposed to it you were
tainted and caught up in it on the other
side for all those
uh centuries okay um
all right so we have some good questions
but i think i will go back and pay my my
donor who
who paid money for me to ask the
question you know there's there's a
mention here about discrimination
towards eastern europeans
uh frida if you do the research i mean
look everyone likes to complain
you know um
when you've studied the history of first
nations people i mean like where i was
out in saskatchewan
we had complaints that the ukrainians
were oppressed these are ethnic
ukrainian immigrants we had complaints
that the francophones were oppressed
so these were french-speaking people who
had one way or another migrated out to
saskatchewan in that part of canada and
you know it just
it doesn't endure scrutiny especially
not when you're in
the context of doing research on the the
often parallel and simultaneous history
of what's being done to the
indigenous people i mean you know sure i
guess if you had a ukrainian accent
or a long difficult to spell ukrainian
name
and you were living in canada in those
centuries you had some slight
disadvantage but
the reason why those ukrainians are
still farmers today in canada
is that they were given free land
guess who wasn't given free land exactly
the people who the land was taken away
from
you know guess what for some reason
there aren't a lot of black people who
own farms
you know in saskatchewan for some reason
they weren't actively recruiting
and they could have the british empire
who were the same polity as you know
jamaica and so on now these we could
have been recruiting caribbeans to come
up and farm and giving them free land
so no i mean a lot of those claims um
everyone likes to complain everyone
likes to kind of tell this history in a
way that makes them the victim
i suppose because they're horrified the
thought that they too are one of the
victimizers of the indigenous people and
to some extent of
black african slave groups but no i i
think if you just do a little bit of
a little bit of digging you'll start to
lose patience with that with that
discourse
okay so a pivot as barack obama
would say barack obama loved that word
pivot
uh he was a man full of pivots that
obama
you know so nobody gives a damn what is
it on any topic today it's funny
people who have the power to kill you
suddenly their opinions doesn't matter
anymore once they've
lost the ability once they've lost their
ability to have you executed
everyone loses interest in their
perspective on politics
anyway um so the question was
uh is it worthwhile
to promote politics through fiction
then interestingly the examples are
manga or books
manga here meaning comic books
especially in the the
japanese style to young adults so is it
worthwhile to promote politics
or maybe specifically the philosophy of
nihilism you suggest in parentheses
two young adults through fiction
so you know we had a long walk this
morning we walk for exercise
in this uh period this is we're still
under lockdown here the coronavirus
epidemic is still ongoing
in this part of canada and you know
i said to melissa this morning i felt
that one of the differences between
myself
and other young people when i was a
young person
was that i really understood and really
appreciated that if you make art
you are making it for someone you are
making it for an audience
you are not making it uh for yourself
you know and i i think that really is
the solution to the riddle here now once
you recognize that you have a lot of
difficult questions to ask you
so to give an example by the way what
i'm explaining here
it is not the difference between success
and failure
you could have a very successful
stand-up comedian
who has no interest in his audience
whatsoever you could have someone who
decides to become a standard comedian
and they have a very let's say they're
an alcoholic they're a guy who likes to
go out
get drunk and make people laugh purely
hypothetical example
you know guy who has his own his own
sense of what's funny and what's not and
maybe he likes to
ridicule people but likes to poke fun at
his friends when he's out drinking
i'm not i hadn't thought i actually met
one stand-up comic he was like
i could tell his story now interesting
guy but anyway
you might get into stand-up comedy with
no interest in the audience or even a
kind of disdain and contempt
for what the audience finds funny and
you you're just a raw looking
self-confident person you get on stage
and tell jokes
now that could be a disaster you know
you could um the vast majority of
stand-up comics
fail but obviously some people with that
attitude you know will be successful
um but
once you understand or once you accept
that this isn't about me
this isn't something i'm doing for
myself this isn't self-expression
this is something i'm doing for others
and so i'm doing for the audience
then you really get into a question of
um do you have enough love in you
you know do you love that audience
enough is there a public you want to
reach out to is there somebody you
respect enough
uh to make that effort to take that time
to create that work of art
to you know write that right and perform
that comedy uh
whatever it might be that you're that
you're undertaking as a venture
so sorry our beautiful hummingbird is
back i don't know if you got it
we could set up a second camera can we
do split screen no we get the view of
the window
that'd be good add some add some matte
shots here of the hummingbird i don't
know
if we have a good climate for uh for for
hummingbirds
so you know um i mean look sorry i
assume this guy is still in the audience
you can tell me to what
extent you think i'm i'm answering your
question one extent i'm not
it's very easy to look at your book like
if you're
if you're writing a book a blank book
here ideally
just hold this book backwards you're
writing a book it's easy to think
about this book as if it's the end and
the objective in itself like you're
creating this work of art you're
creating this object
just to exist and you're not you have to
have a connection
to some kind of public to some kind of
audience that you're writing for
now you know um
i've said that to melissa too in terms
of making youtube videos you know
one way to do it it's not the only way
to make youtube video you can think
about
who is this for you can think about like
i'm okay i know some particular people
in the audience here i know lydia i know
frida now we've been talking
i could make a video where i really
consciously intentionally think okay
i know frida is going to see this now
lydia's going to see this and i'm going
to i'm going to make this video
talking about the history of genocide or
slavery or something and i'm gonna try
to
make this mean something to this person
from mexico i know a few things about
from
you know as small as that may be if
there are five
people you know you're creating art for
where you have that connection and where
you
you know what it's going to be for them
and it's falsifiable by the way you know
you can write a
a comic book or write a novel and you
give it to those five people
and they say to you ah this doesn't work
for me i don't even know what the point
is you know that sorry this seems
self-indulgent
that's a very different thing than the
way most people take on
you know creative projects our projects
and and writing projects
and obviously i'm saying all this
because in some ways it's a good thing
about the internet
that you get to take on projects on a
small scale without committing too much
time or money
you know to do that so look the question
was should you
you know pursue political change or even
philosophical education of the public
through
fiction okay so let me ask you what else
you got
we just saw um kind of the latest
propaganda news from hong kong
for some reason this morning didn't get
any news from afghanistan
didn't get any news from iraq where
american democracy is working out great
there's just no problem with democracy
in iraq or afghanistan there are no
intellectual dissidents there
who i need to see interviewed on the
news but you know i
i wake up today and i get some
propaganda from hong kong
and about how these uh poor peaceful
protesters
the protests in hong kong were not
peaceful they were massively damaging
and massively disrupting and
destroyed the subway system whatever
okay but these these peaceful protesters
in hong kong
their lives have been ruined because
they protest
against the government of communist
china in this way huh
okay so you asked a question here is it
worthwhile to promote
political change and even some
philosophical ideas
through fiction okay well would you
rather go to jail
you know how does that compare to other
modes of so-called
self-expression in the pursuit of
political and cultural change that we
have as
options in our lives now i don't know
what situation you're in
specifically so we're talking about hong
kong specifically
if you're a hong kong intellectual
probably manga
is a great option instead of
breaking the subway system instead of
causing physical and economic damage to
the city you're living in
you know instead of engaging in violent
protests and there was indeed some
burning and looting and what have you
you know
instead of physically fighting against
the police
you know and doing these kinds of things
how would it compare if you think about
just five years of your life
like anything about five years left we
have this one moment of
rebellion violent rebellion followed by
some number of years in and out of court
and out of jail and so on
and then of course you look ahead to 50
years of your life in full context
how would that compare to if you spent
five years working on what you think is
a really great work of art a great work
of fiction
you're sisting a comic book or uh
you know maybe an animated movie or
something a cartoon or something
you know how how would that compare and
certainly hong kong and
you know you could you could publish in
japan and so you could work with artists
in japan or south korea
they'll have manga culture also this
kind of thing well
no matter how humble no matter how
pathetic
the road taken by the author of fiction
may seem
that starts to seem pretty positive in
that in that context
and last live stream so uh episode
003 i talked to quite some length about
how voltaire is one of the most
positive uh examples you know uh one of
the most positive uh
i i mean someone who wrote something i'm
sorry even though the book is terrible
his writing is awful but he had this
profound impact in the world that nobody
has ever had by holding up a protest
sign or chanting or singing
or you know the types of protests the
year 2020 had the united states they
burned down a kentucky fried chicken
that was it yeah it was kfc wasn't it
wendy's sorry that's right it was a
wendy's
you know i just do not believe that
burning down a wendy's
is going to end police brutality and as
humble and pathetic as it may
sound to you know write a work of
literature or create a
create an animated movie to really
address police brutality
that sounds a lot better than burning
down a wendy's to me that sounds a lot
better to the riots
that killed far more innocent civilians
than they killed policemen and i did
read the detailed accounts of they were
innocent black people killed by other
black people at these
protests it's terrible that lasts
forever you know what i'm saying
anyway comment from the audience wendy's
also ends many people's life
that's consensual frida that's
consensual
um and wendy's is not going to uh uh
is not gonna someone wrote it in so i
think i think most of my own is melissa
is out of your league
there you go that's that's
uh guys if if you prefer melissa's
content you're getting plenty of
my youtube channel we just uploaded one
today but melissa does have her own
youtube channel so those who those who
are bigger fans of melissa
there's enough content from the both
both of us to go around
so this is a comment from wicked energy
quote i can't believe how many trolls
are in chat
but can they get hashtag free melissa
trending yes
no no no hashtag free eyes all ask
anyway guys look i tell you two things
one it comes to the territory
but two you know um if you're talking
about trolls
you know i encourage critique i
encourage dissent
for the record when um
pardon me when unnatural vegan cross
swords with me you know um
the the the emails are now public you
know the emails that back weather
the main thing i said to her was look if
you want to criticize my work as a
scholar of buddhism if you want a
christmas
just read it first just do the reading
i'm so happy to have you
like even if you think my work is trash
if you think what i have to say about
the history of buddhism is is garbage or
something by all means have at it
you know let's let's let's see what you
got criticize it as harshly as you as
you possibly can
but you have to do the reading first you
can't uh you can't criticize it enough
to share arguments and you know um
i mean i i really haven't i mean and she
didn't by the way she never did
regret he was completely surreal and
what she said about me was just
it was lies about lies about lies it was
just total total fiction it didn't
really even mean anything
recorded she called me a cult leader oh
okay well yeah i'm
welcome to the cult guys um yeah in my
in my cult we read books and
uh criticize american politics
apparently
um and i make about two dollars and
fifty cents
out of every video it's not it's not
much of a cult
uh but you know um
you know i i really wish i had more uh
critics i wish there were more of a
culture of uh descent
and and and you know kind of steal
sharpening steel this way
you guys might know this but i i'm on a
first name basis with the live uh
the live streamer the youtuber uh
crankyvegan you know we we talk
um you know he knows i've criticized his
channel
you know i think it would be a different
world in a better world if he responded
by criticizing me back or you know he
could agree or disagree i know we've
seen that video we've chatted about kind
of unrelated things
but you know he and i chat every so
often and uh
you know i've said this in so many times
in a different context
if you engage in film criticism it
doesn't mean you hate film you're trying
to improve film
um you know if people criticize my
youtube channel it doesn't mean they
hate my youtube
channel or trying to destroy uh you know
my youtube channel like that's
that's really fine for me i'd encourage
people by all means you know put put the
time and energy in and
whatever it is i mean i but you you guys
tell me right now do you think anyone do
you think anyone is going to make the
effort to read a single one of these
books i've mentioned
and then make a youtube video saying my
interpretation of it is wrong that has
never happened
once on the history of this youtube
channel a few times i
criticized a book and the author got in
touch with me furiously
and i said well look you're welcome to
respond like what do you what do you got
to say but like
look i read your book this is legit
criticism of your foot like it's
legitimate this is my
you know this is my analysis of your
book like you know
what do you what do you expect if you
publish a book unless nobody
reads it it's going to be this kind of
critique um but i've never even had one
of those authors
attempt to answer uh criticism with
criticism
so anyway uh yeah you know really what i
would what i would like is for
anyway i'm i i'm sure that is asking too
much but obviously people like dorian
nor vegan none of them were ever
interested in the actual substance of
the actual content of what was discussed
in my channel
uh not about any historical political uh
issue or what have you
um okay one person
wrote to me by email disagreeing with me
about aristotle at length
i've gotta i've gotta give credit and i
still have notes literally on the
desktop on my computer to do a follow-up
video
uh talking about that guy's criticism
ultimately i think he was wrong
i i do i do stand by my interpretation
but he was guy who made a kind of
concerted effort to argue that my
interpretation of aristotle was
wasn't correct so that was in the whole
history of the youtube channel and might
be might be unique
all right sorry
man so this this one passionate
credit card channel this one uh one
troll
keeps uh opening new accounts
um to try to contribute again and again
to our our conversation
so we have someone said i can't believe
how many trolls are in chat no it's all
the same guy
today it's it's exactly one guy but by
all means reach out to
uh who else used to join me reach out to
um
forgetting the guy's name uh ask
yourself reach out to
you guys piece of trash
anyway so lydia lydia says she's still
my number one fan
so yeah well if you want to i can give
you banning power but i think you'd ban
everyone but yourself
you know um
yeah anyway lydia by all means give us
give us an update on your life we don't
we haven't
heard about you in like four years but
you know yeah we used to we used to know
you pretty well four years ago
so yeah uh all right so quote
i think a natural vegan doesn't even
quite understand what neoliberalism is
yes um
okay so i i don't want to go into a big
long uh discussion of the psychology of
of a natural vegan but i think it is
fair to say she is the purest kind of
phony
and she is she is really someone who
uses words and doesn't without knowing
what they mean
uh she's a serial offender at that
she talks about books she hasn't read
you know she really does quote and
invoke ideas
she doesn't even have a passing
familiarity with we saw that to a
massive extent with um
peter singer you know and it was like oh
and then after a few minutes oh well i
don't really know anything about peter
really because after you know five years
of
fronting like you knew the first thing
about peter sanders and she that was
what you fought with me about
you know so yeah i mean
i i do assume she has a diagnosed
learning disability a natural vegan
she took many many many years to get a
lowly
ba in philosophy and never anything
beyond that i
i do i genuinely think she's a mentally
disabled person or a learning disabled
person
i mean i've interacted with her for
years and watched her for years i think
she
to say that she doesn't know what she's
talking about
is really an understatement if you look
at she's done very few live streams she
does very few
spontaneous videos but one of them was
about me
you know she did a live stream after
durianrider and freely went after me and
she seemed to me
very mentally disabled that and really
not able to
interact with and speak the arts there's
a gap between her pre-recorded scripted
videos and what she does
uh spontaneously so
you know when you when you look at that
you have a sense of that over years
because she's she's now someone knows
like five
five six years maybe it's like seven
years by now i don't know i mean she's
someone i have some
sense for and some feeling for yeah to
say that she
talks about things without knowing which
time but it is it is really an
understatement
and the controversy about socialism
and capitalism when she came out and
made of serious statements about what
neoliberalism is and so on
that was embarrassing for her she got
caught with her pants down
but i think that just revealed what
she's doing all the time that she is
really skating by with
no without even wikipedia level
knowledge
of anything she talks about oh right so
let's say let's just say really briefly
one of the biggest ones
antidepressants i mean she made her name
by being a so-called pro science channel
and the one and only topic she ever did
research on was splenda
she she uh researched artificial
sweeteners
like splenda and nutrasweet and i again
i've never looked into it maybe maybe
that was just the wikipedia article
but she went around and did some reading
to present this uh this video
but then anything else she's ever spoken
on whether it's
you know antidepressants or any other
issue that comes up in in science
or cats you know when she talked about
you know
raising pets and castrating cats and
dogs and things
it's just and you know peter singer and
everything else it's
to say it's stupid or to say it's
ignorant it's really an understatement
so i see her as someone who is trying to
cover up for a learning disability
and that statement about neoliberalism
it was one of the moments when her cover
you know failed when it would be obvious
that he'd attached outlook or just how
old to see she was
and that was you know nobody was rushing
her she was working with her own camera
at her own pace and she was her own
editor she could do her own fact check
you know it wasn't a live stream and it
wasn't that she was being
pestered by an interviewer or something
and and even so
you know yeah so uh frida says she
boasts about taking many antidepressants
so yes and she took antidepressants
during pregnancy
with both babies so antidepressants do
harm to your health
taking antidepressants during pregnancy
harms the baby
and that's not hard to google verify
it's not hard to
check into we did videos talking about
that on my youtube channel
so yeah uh uh well so my
my one and only uh troll here i thought
you got a full-time job man you were
just boasting the other day this guy
sent me an email
saying he was so proud that he had a
nine-to-five job now and i simply wrote
back a one word
response i said congrats i said
congratulations
but whatever his nine to five job is uh
this is uh
this is neither nine nor five at the
moment in his time zones
um
okay there was also a question sir i
want to move on to more profound things
but uh james mcpine is asking about uh
whether or not i have a
uh a schedule or structured in my days
so we are now waking up around 6 a.m
our target is 6 30 a.m but we some days
when we have at 5 40 a.m sundays at 6.
so waking up early is one aspect we do
try to get exercise
every day um
there was more structure to my days back
when i was learning chinese
and when the challenge was to balance
learning chinese versus doing everything
else in my life
i see myself right now
as in a transitional period where i
haven't finished writing my book
go to instagram for updates or support
me on patreon for updates when the book
comes out
but i'm trying to finish writing the
manuscript of my book and i'm doing
research
that's related to writing the book thus
some of the books that are mentioned in
this
video today and um
you know presumably i'm going to return
to university in september as a student
so you know um
right now no there's not a whole hell of
a lot of structure beyond that
it's but we try to get the most of every
day um
yeah it's it's hard when your life is a
series of transitional periods and you
never really know what it is you're
transitioning to
and you you may be transitioning to
nothing at all um to say i'm
[Music]
pessimistic about the university of
victoria would be an understatement
and you can search for university of
victoria
in my youtube channel and you can find
out more about why it isn't so
pessimistic
someone comments quote i actually really
like your videos about jordan peterson
and about unnatural vegans
antidepressant use most people believe
the serotonin dopamine thing yes that's
called the monoamine hypothesis
which indeed uh you know
which is indeed much disproven
um so he says i actually like your
videos about jordan peterson and natural
vegans antidepressants most people
believe the serotonin dopamine thing
uh even though medicine has moved on to
another model
yeah there is a book um that i have not
read let's see if i can just get this on
amazon
this is a book i considered buying and
never i think it's like 15 bucks
um the the subtitle is the anatomy of an
epidemic
so i can get it that way i'll give you
guys the link if you're interested
i have seen many interviews with the
author who wrote this book here we go
robert whittaker anatomy of an epidemic
there we go so
hold on i'm just going to get the
so this is from the olden days of 2011.
um and robert whittaker i mean he's an
interesting guy i think everyone who
writes in this field is an interesting
guy
so you can get this pretty cheaply um
[Music]
you know he was not a psychiatrist
himself nor was he a patient he was
really a traditional investigative
journalist
and he brings that investigative
journalist's view to it and he was
himself so i don't know if you already
know this story babe sorry i just
said this guy well so
i don't i hope i'm not getting this
mixed up but this is this is from memory
but as i recall when he first started
researching this he completely
assumed that these were legitimate uh
you know medications just like uh
treating someone with diabetes you know
like by giving them a chemical that's
missing from their body
and he thought he was going to be
investigating the unethical practices of
these researchers
in putting people on the drugs and
taking them off because if you really
believe it's something like that
i mean you never you would never do the
same kind of experimentation with
someone who was diabetic
like okay now we're going to take you
off the drug and see how you recover or
see how you attack or something
but as i recall he gave that as an
example that like when he started
he wasn't he wasn't skeptical about this
he assumed this was just literally
biologically valid medical science
and then he starts getting deeper and
deeper into it he realizes this is just
kind of
a set of debunked marketing claims that
people have come to regard as
biologically valid science yeah so uh
interesting guy
i mean i think genuinely well
intentioned um in researching and
writing that book
and it probably helps him that he's an
outsider i mean
we have just lived through um what's his
name completely uh
uh kind of debunking discrediting
himself so peter bregen
if you guys don't know the name peter
bregen he has just made a whole series
of really unfortunate conspiratorial
remarks about
uh coronavirus and the vaccines and so
on
and he's shown his limits as an
intellectual you know
i'd seen other things in the past that
showed he wasn't the brightest
cabbage in the cabbage patch sort of
thing you know there were certain but
peter bregen was really one of the most
important voices
he wrote talking back to prozac and he
gave interviews and he really you know
um but uh sorry let me just say this
it's one thing to be smart enough to
criticize
antidepressants which peter bregman was
but then you know whenever peter bregman
returned to talking about the type of
treatment he favored instead
you'd think ah this guy's kind of
lightweight this guy kind of
actually what i mean he could then see
his limits like oh intellectually he's
not that deep you know
i don't know if you've heard this but so
i've quoted peter bregen many times on
my channel and
obviously i have some respect for the
guy but he determined me give this
really hard hitting critique
this is like the film clips that i'm
editing to use in my videos
you know this hard-hitting critique
about like prozac has been debunked and
these are the effects and these are the
side effects this is how we you know
give this their sims
and then he'd say but you know the
people with these uh
uh you know the people with these
problems if only they could sit down and
spend time
you know with their parents then they're
probably
just spend more time with your loving
and supportive family and so on
you know and again it's it's well
intentioned but
uh you know wow you know
just uh anyway so he's somebody who's
kind of fallen from grace
um in uh 2020 in the last year
but yeah it's interesting to see who
steps up and who wants to take on the
fight
there is there is so much to win there's
the question of what is the next 100
years going to look like on planet earth
has a lot to do with drugs legal and
illegal and i mean what if we
if we walk to the grocery store right
now you know
the city we live in the lives we all
live and where we choose to live and
everything
all of this i mean drug addiction all
around us and you know i thought i
thought one of the most interesting
questions to come out of 2020
was about police being on drugs if
police are taking psychiatric meds or
illegal recreational drugs um are we
going to start testing police officers
like if if you are taking a drug that is
labeled antipsychotic
that is what one class of these
psychiatric meds is called
or you are taking one that is called
antidepressant
are you really competent to hold a gun
and make these decisions you know as a
police officer and i think if you just
read the label
about the side effects on those drugs
i've seen them in some of them we're
looking at haldol
i made a youtube video talking about how
dolls specifically because another
youtuber is taking help
and it's like well you shouldn't even
operate heavy machinery
you know you may not be able to drive a
car it's like okay and these are some of
the most widely prescribed drugs the
united states of america these are the
warnings you're getting okay
and then we're gonna have police
officers the power of life and death and
making you know important judgment
i think that's a really interesting
question that came out through this
right so i won't go on and on about it
but once you've allowed yourself to ask
that question right then what
what next what's the future you know
are school teachers allowed to get high
is it okay if school teachers are using
marijuana and cocaine and
antidepressants and antipsychotics if
they're walking around in a
howldoll and the cbd haze or
you know there's a lot of i think you
know more and more you start to ask
who is taking on a responsible role in
society and why
why should we lower standards of
expectations once we've established
those standards
for police officers for example um
huh interesting question from jonathan l
because jonathan l
asks did you talk about money
and your philosophy
and what part of your morals and ethics
would you sell
for someone with a more gray outlook i
think i have to ask you that sounds like
an interesting question that needs to be
reworded
it sounds like you're getting at
something interesting
i i think that was just too unclear so
jonathan i don't know it could be
english as your second language it could
be you wrote that on the phone there
there are a few different grammars in
there
why don't you why don't you give it a
second uh a second
shot let's let's see what you got to say
you know it'd be interesting all right
okay so so uh someone in the audience
anonymously they just gave their
initials st
says this is probably because in a
rationalist society suffering is only
taken seriously if it can be
biologized or narrativized into a single
condition
you know i think the truth is darker
than that st i think
people take your suffering seriously
if you have the charisma and the art
to compel them to take it seriously you
know what i mean
that's that's really you know your
suffering only matters
if you get out there and make make it
matter make it matter through
demonstrate to them why it should matter
why they should care
then people will care then only then you
know what i mean
um
[Music]
so you know i i guess you know i don't
think it's the case that in a rational
society
once you can identify your suffering
with a biologically real condition that
anyone cares
they don't care i mean we don't have a
very caring society period
but if you are very charismatic for
example let's say you were the lead
singer of a rock band
you know maybe you could go hey can i
use this question i just noticed guys so
we have 28 people in the audience right
now
you guys all members and we have only
six thumbs up i i don't
mean to complain but is there some
reason if you've been listening to this
for over one hour
you've been in you've been science why
would you not
hit thumbs i mean if you've just been
here for five minutes
like let's see how this goes let's let's
hear him read the passage
let's see where this goes because it
seems to me if we have such a small
audience we have 28 people in the
audience that i know
plenty of you you know what i'm saying i
think we
could have a total of 28 thumbs up for
some of that
is it's no you know there we go okay
and you guys know when you do that it
means some other people will get the
alert and some other people say look i
mean
it just seems you know whatever and if
you want to give it a thumbs down you're
an hour and eight minutes deep into the
bucket i
i get it maybe it's not skipper the last
time we did one of these
people are apologetic give me the thumbs
up
the last time we did one of these live
streams we had two people
unsubscribe from my channel because uh
youtube isn't those
and that i wonder what expectations
those two people had am i
if that was not what you were looking
for on my youtube
thumbs up you channel say this true be
sure to like share and subscribe
i am just asking the question given the
numbers and you see
a couple other people just joined
because people gave the thumbs up so i
just said a couple more people
a couple jumped in because that is what
happens youtube will uh will
promote your link but anyway oh okay
i'm just scrolling through here we got
some other intelligent comments
[Music]
okay so another good question this
relates to haldol specifically
so james writes in james says what are
your thoughts on anti-medicare
what are your thoughts on medication in
relation to things like anti-seizure
meds
look it's a different story in every
case but when you read the label when
you read the
fda labels this is the food and drug
administration that says america you get
a lot of damning information about these
drugs
the fda label they will very often admit
that the mechanism of the drug is
unknown and unproven
for the anti-seizure medication so i've
seen several examples that i'm not
saying it's true in all cases
but a drug like aspirin
is very well proven in its effects in
the medic the mechanism of action the
theory behind it
the the positive benefits you get from
treating a fever
with aspirin are proven and they make
sense
we know ideologically step by step
mechanistically
cause and effect how does aspirin affect
your body and
therefore what medical benefits do you
get from aspirin right
you might think aspirin's not a serious
drug but it is right you know aspirin
is made from what what is what plant
is aspirin made from did you guys in the
ice ever actually
it's made from the opium poppy aspirin
and heroin
are both products of the opium poppy now
the uses of opium are also proven you
know what i mean
you were very often looking at
psychiatric meds
where we was looking at one the other
day it was like oh well this was started
to
use to treat cancer patients and that
didn't work and then they started using
it as an antidepressant antipsychotic
because it seemed to have mental effects
where you know it really is people i'll
use somebody else's idiom people
throwing spaghetti against the wall to
see what sticks
where there's just been a very short
process of trial and error to see what
apparent benefits it has
where often not always but often you
know
the real effects of the drug through
your whole body are not known and by the
way also when you read the fda label so
to be clear i'm just encouraging you to
read the government's own information
the fda label you know when it's listing
those negative side effects to the rest
of the body or even other positive side
effects
you know um it's significant just be
aware
even if you don't suffer those side
effects that it is having effects on all
those symptoms so if it impacts your
your blood pressure think about that
okay so this doesn't just affect
you know my nervous system this doesn't
just affect my my
mental attitude or mood this also
affects my nervous system because it has
these side effects
the side effects that are listed are
significant also in just telling you
what are the parts of the body
that are that are somehow agonistically
impacted where there's some receptor or
there's some chemical that is that is
impacted by
your body and many of those drugs again
when you go through the list of side
effects it's everything
say okay this affects your ability to
have erections and this affects your
heart your blood pressure it affects
your ability to sleep
many of them they list that it affects
the the your regular heartbeat
it affects sleep apnea invasive ability
to sleep your ability to breathe during
your sleep
the heartbeat irregular heartbeats while
you're asleep okay
so this is affecting your nervous system
that way then really think about that
even if you don't
notice it you know wow these are the
knock-on effects so you know
i just say just really read the with the
fda uh
information and you know the exceptions
will be drugs like aspirin
there are some drugs like aspirin where
we know the benefits and we know the
harms and it's real science
and naturally those are those are not
controversial it's just inevitable
you know um
all right i'm just reading through the
comments you guys know why i'm wait if
you want to know why i'm multiple silent
here
okay so there's a question here from
james about objective versus subject of
morality
i think i've done that topic to death on
my youtube channel
so i sometimes invoke youtubers
privilege here
uh i will search my own channel but i
think if i just look for the words
objective and subjective i'm going to
get those videos that is
i mean i can't say it's an interesting
topic to me
i think it's one of those topics where i
seem to be in this tiny minority of
people who understand it really clearly
but yes so i have several videos dealing
with that it's not in its own
uh playlist but i've got videos dealing
with objectivity
responsibility moral realism versus
nihilism
objective morality i i do have videos
talking about that already
um so i think i think that's one of i've
beaten to death
um all right
so frida says i've heard about aspirin
being good to take when you are
heartbroken
okay if you're talking about depression
i'm sorry i didn't mean for this to be a
depression
antidepressant livestream but i mean it
is a big issue that influences a lot of
people
we have new studies now that are proving
um you know
that um
drugs like ketamine have more of a
positive effect on depression than
so-called antidepressants now i do not
endorse using ketamine to treat
depression whatsoever
jordan peterson was recently given
ketamine
um but once you have that standard
establishment oh well well it's more
effective than prozac
once you understand how low that's
setting the bar sure
sure it's possible people would use
aspirin or ketamine or
all kinds of drugs that have some kind
of
um you know mind-altering effect of
course they could be more effective
of course even you know there are
studies supporting the use of marijuana
and i'm opposed to these marijuana
but sure i mean if you're comparing
marijuana to um
prozac and some of these other really
debunked antidepressants sure marijuana
could
uh it could be positive relative to that
very low standard
all right we've got some statements
about utilitarianism which i'm
habitually going to skip over
so jonathan clarifies this earlier
question quote i just wanted to hear
your nuanced thoughts and money
and i believe you're a person who might
already have a videotape about it i do
i remember a very passionate video i
made talking about money and my own
motivations for what i'm doing in life
boy i don't know if i could find that
today though um
i have made videos really talking about
you know the jobs i've applied for and
the jobs i didn't get
and you know the meaning of money
in life and the extent to which you know
the meaning of life is something you
pursue
despite the pressure and money i have
definitely made videos talking about
that but boy when you've done more than
2 000 videos
um it is not easy i used to have some
fans of the channel who have all that
stuff memorized
they they're not in this they're not in
this live stream right now but yeah
no it's it's um boy i can't remember the
name of that video the particular one
i'm thinking of
but i remember making video you know one
of the reasons i had to think about it
was jonathan
we both enrolled in bacon college
and then when you're talking about a
career as a baker you get to really look
at
how you earned your money as something
very separate from
the meaning of life like okay this is
who i really am
and this is my nine to five job more
likely to be at three a.m until
two in the afternoon job or something
get up real early as a baker
but those things are very separate so
i've definitely made videos
you know philosophizing about it yeah
okay real simple question what are your
thoughts about the controversy
surrounding bill c-10 in canada
so i'll just i'll just uh well i feel
like just uh copying and pasting that
here
in case people don't you know the
question so that is certainly something
people outside of canada have not heard
about um look you know
[Music]
laws are made by people
the problem with bill c-10 in canada
is that it shows you that we are ruled
by terrible people
in canada these people aren't so much
older than me i'm 42 now
uh bill c-10 is a very badly worded
very poorly thought through attempt to
regulate
free speech on the internet its primary
purpose
is to force canadians to watch canadian
content
like if you are a canadian watching
youtube that you should watch youtube
in canada rather than youtube videos
made in the united states
or somewhere else and it has been
through various drafts and revisions
none of which makes sense i really think
i mean
if you were if i were just talking that
with melissa out of the blue one day
like hey what do you think
about the idea of having a law that will
change free speech
how do you think we do that i really
think any two
reasonably intelligent people having an
open-ended discussion
would come up with a better set of
proposals than that
law it's unbelievably stupid um
i just mentioned i mean another another
kind of thorny example that from the
other side of the world
every so often in sri lanka there's some
law proposed
to basically try to limit islam
to say well look we believe in freedom
of religion
but they have their own problems with
muslim terrorists they have no problem
with hindu terrorists also
and they're always very poorly written
and the funny thing is normally when
those things are proposed
the majority of people do agree with
them in broad outline yeah somebody
should redefine what we mean by
freedom of religion you know because we
don't we don't really mean the right to
cut off
part of a baby's penis it's actually not
freedom of religion we don't believe in
circumcision you know
like there are all kinds of things that
really we don't believe in under freedom
of religion but they're
currently commonly practiced and
unquestioned so you know but
this tells you something about the type
of people who are in that privileged
position in
in canada and you know i mean
if you guys don't know already what a
low opinion i have of our
our version of so-called democracy in
canada by the book
no more that manifestos uh coming soon
but yeah i mean i just say that bill i'm
sorry if i'm saying this in a slightly
inarticulate way
i don't think that tells you anything
about freedom of speech
i don't think it tells you anything
about canada i think it tells you
something about the culture and
intellectual
caliber of the type of people who are in
positions of power in canada and in
brief that is abysmally poor
and uh abysmally low
spicy dragoon asks what are you
currently doing for work now
you're looking at it you're looking at
it bro this this is what i'm doing for
work right now
believe it or not believe it or not this
this is my job
i pay taxes on what i earn from doing
this job
[Music]
um
oh so we got it we got a question about
height and weight
so yeah i am six foot three in the
morning um
your spine compresses during the day so
about six foot two and a half
later on but yeah uh durianrider would
be happy to meet up with me now
i mean i just say he's he's changed his
whole tune um
you know very strange guy but i've had
email back and forth then
so if i did meet up and have a boxing
match with durianrider now it would be
friendly there wouldn't really be any
hard feelings
so he and i could we could still have a
boxing match you know but he's not mad
at me anymore he sees the whole thing in
a very different way
and if you you know if you didn't know
when
he was accused of rape by nor vegan
you know i did the right thing because
it's the right thing to do even though
durianrider has been an immoral person
towards me and others even though he's a
bad person
i was not gonna lie out of political
convenience and blackness character i
i said the truth i said what i knew of
the truth and so on
um i i stood up uh
you know i stood into everything and it
took him a long time to
figure that out and appreciate it i
think just because he wasn't watching my
videos or whatever
a very strange guy obviously
but no in that sense there's no conflict
you know in that emotional sense there's
no conflict between him and i now
um he really figured out that i was a
person of integrity that i really was
telling the truth about everything
of course he also claimed sir just very
briefly but he claimed i was lying about
the court case
and he found out i was telling the truth
about all that so i told the truth about
everything throughout the whole
controversy
but even when it would have been
convenient for me to lie
or to blacken through mary's character i
never did that
and i did have evidence i was a witness
to what the reality was
before those rape allegations were made
up and i wasn't the only one there were
several other people
and so you know there was a very very
strange sad controversy
but sure obviously that that impacted
the way durianrider sees me and i think
the way
he uh he sees myself okay
um a question from the audience how come
you won't talk about vegan gains
what do you you guys don't know there's
a search
feature within within youtube what are
you what are you talking about how many
videos have i done about vegan gains
should i search for vegan games plus the
word idiot or something i mean
you know sorry but if you i'll give you
the link bro
but if you if you just search for vegan
gains in my channel i mean we've
we've really kind of set it all so
that's the
i'll just mark that's the search search
results for vegan gains
oh on abortion right i did an abortion
uh discussion
i also have a video snappy title coward
versus coward
vegan versus vegan yeah keeping it real
with vegan gains
yeah so there's a long history a very
harsh critique directed towards vegan
gains on my channel
sure yeah i think i think
it's 191 centimeters bezel maybe i'm
wrong
191 centimeters in feet and inches some
of that
i forget the only time i have to do that
is when i'm filling out paperwork for
the government
some of that 19192 it's not a round
number
i remember
so yeah some of that um
[Music]
yeah so someone else is here is
remembering old critiques i did so this
is
it's nice to have when people of
substance ask questions of substance i'm
happy to answer it i mean
uh but anyway someone says thanks for
making videos about earthling ed that
guy is a sleaze and makes ten thousand
dollars per month in donations but where
does the money go
so look let's let's list some some names
of people who
have gotten a wretch out of veganism and
are getting rich right now
and nobody knows where the money goes
yes
earthling ed is one okay
wayne syong and his sister
at direct action everywhere they are now
well over
1 million dollars a year to my knowledge
they are either closer to or beyond 2
million
a year in income you can go to direct
action everywhere's
youtube channel right now where does the
more than one million dollars a year go
and you can look up their reports uh
dr greger so dr greger what did you do
nutrition facts some of that
dr greger nutrition factor i've made
many videos
multi-million dollar scam where is the
money coming from where does it go
i mean look where does money come from i
i presume these are all good-hearted
people who want to make the world a
better place they're doing this money
but there are millions of dollars going
down the drain
now look guys i have asked for money i
have done fundraisers on my channel
before
if i asked you for money to publish my
book
you will know where every dollar goes
i'll say hey this is how much the paper
cost this
maybe you have to pay you know an
illustrator for the front cover or
something or for the old you know
this is how much you paid the
illustrator this is how much the
shipping like
just break it down and say hey if you
donated money the book and now
presumably i send you a free copy of the
book or i sign it and send you say hey
thank you for supporting the publication
this book
that's how you do charity guys i i used
to be involved with the humanitarian
sector i'm still tempted
we talked about central asia i would
love to go back to cambodia i would love
to go back to laos and do
humanitarian work if i ask you guys for
money
i can give you a receipt for every
blanket
like yeah we bought 10 t-shirts and 10
blank and i can make a youtube video
this is me handing the blanket to the
poor person and here's your receipt
that's the reality and then nobody is
being ripped off
and if if some of the money is being
spent on my hotel room or whatever
just be real about it just like yup this
is the hotel we got this is where i'm
staying
like why not why not be transparent
um now you know i just say i mean i
normally do not so this is a live stream
it's a little bit more informal if i
were making a video about earthling ad
i would never call him a sleaze
because that is an insult that is too
vague to mean anything
all right i believe i'll tell you
exactly what i mean
by an idiot i think his philosophy is
i think his method of activism is
totally counterproductive and moronic i
think his videos are meandering and
self-indulgent and stupid
i think people donating his money would
be just as well off to take their money
and put it in the toilet and hit flush
you know i will tell you what i think
but i i do not call people a sleaze i do
not call people a creep
unless there's some particular reason i
just say like
i avoid this kind of vague insult or
vague complaint
i don't do so just just a recommendation
yes whatever it is you got to say about
everything ed
say it but like to call him us like i
don't even know what that means
in some other if we're talking about
hollywood and you see this guy is a
sleazy casting
okay i have a sense of what you mean but
i do not know in what sense earthling ed
could be called i mean
he is poorly groomed he's badly dressed
and badly
shaven but like is that what you mean by
you know what i mean so insults should
mean something you know what i'm saying
you know i would even say the same about
like rap music you know if you're going
to rap about somebody
and you're going to insult somebody and
wrap something it's got to be precise
you know you've got to come correct
you know um uh lazzle
uh lapilli who's pardon me at las vegas
good
pronunciation that uh lazzle lappy
that's how she spelled that um comments
that she doesn't even know what
vengeance is doing
i agree and if you look at his numbers
they've
disappeared he's alienated the vast
majority of his audience nobody wants to
know what he's doing
unless and you know he's now doing porn
so if you want to see him naked he's now
doing hardcore porn
on uh unonly fans but nobody cares and
you know i mean
you know um i left a comment recently on
one of uh freelee's videos
i said you know this is what would
happen if hollywood just kept making
indiana jones movies again and again and
again there's no inspiration there's no
point there's no purpose there's no
verve there's no passion
and you know i could say the same about
vegan gains it's just the
the level of self-indulgence and
pointlessness in its contents it's
palpably awful and by the way i got
other stuff i wanted to read and want to
talk about here
it's great talking to you guys but you
know there's stuff i'm really passionate
about and as soon as i hang up the phone
here
there's stuff i want to get back to
doing too i've got i've got a lot of
passion and tenacity and verb and sense
of purpose i have a lot of ambition
and that's why i'm coming on the
microphone as often but if you're not
if you're a mopey self-pitying piece of
crap like vegan gains who just wants to
sit around and play video games all day
don't don't come on the mic he would
have been better off doing what aaron
janus did
aaron janice uploading less than one
video a year but she maintains the
mystique
right everyone imagines aerojanus is
doing something tremendously profound
and meaningful you know um
you can let your imagination run run
wild so anyway i got a question about
how do you deal with anti-semitism
so again i got to kind of use youtubers
privilege here if you search for
anti-semitism on my channel you get some
i think
i think i've made some really meaningful
videos with that i have one video in
which i'm talking to my daughter
about anti-semitism so you know and also
i
made a video about the ideological
origins of the nazi movement you know
which i sorry to say
two things to search for you can look
for the video on the
origins of the nazi ideology and you can
look at the video which i'm talking to
my daughter about
anti-semitism sure it's a big deal it's
it's not
it ain't something new that just came
out of nowhere and it's not just about
to go away we have a donation
of five euros that's going to pay for me
to buy a new a new jar
i think there's about two dollars each
of these jobs beautiful jar beautiful
piece of glassware almost indestructible
too
all right quote do you think there is
anything useful that can be learned from
meditating
or from buddhism uh and if so is it
something that you can't get
from prayer or christianity ah all right
it's a good thing you paid me five
dollars
[Laughter]
all right you know what
does my background of studying buddhism
you know give me today
this world is roughly spheroid in shape
i can't quite say it's a sphere it's a
little bit bigger around the middle it
bulges and flat at the top and but you
know what i mean
let's just let's just call it a sphere
and be done with it okay guys
in the whole world historically how many
civilizations have
expanded massive literature literature
about philosophy
literature about politics
china india
europe okay
pre-contact south america south america
and central america
before europeans came and destroyed
everything they did have writing
they did have written language the
spanish destroyed it
europeans destroyed it let's not let's
not blame the spanish especially
the portuguese and the french and the
british we were all involved europeans
destroyed their written literature
including the physical substrate like
what it was written on
was destroyed okay so in some other
parallel universe it's possible
they wrote meaningful things down in
indigenous north america indigenous
silver
but in terms of what is extant today
that is about
all you've got to work from um now okay
one tear down what about islam
what about the arabic speaking world
you could add that and have a fourth so
now you've got
china india europe
arabia and the parts of the world that
were conquered and influenced by
arabia started using the arab time okay
are you going to live your life only
knowing one
of those four are you going to be kind
of intimidated and ignorant
any time one of the other three come up
most white western english-speaking
people don't even really have much
familiarity with the canon of
english literature english politics
let alone french italian spanish ancient
greek or
what have you um the main thing i can
say that's a positive benefit
from knowing buddhism is that you
get to know another one of those
cultures one of those corpuses of
literature that's full of politics and
philosophy and the human experience
right you get to see all those things
from another perspective
on another side of the planet right
and that's all i could say in his favor
if you don't know i've made many videos
about meditation
buddhist meditation is a lie
if you believe in buddhist meditation
you believe in a lie all right anyone
who teaches or preaches or promotes
buddhist meditation
is making money and promoting their
career
on the basis of a lie all right
i know you know which one do you prefer
you want the tibetan lie
you want the japanese lie you want the
you want the sri lankan a lot you know
no it's all lies um
if you compare it to prayer and
christianity
the advantage that prayer has is that
it's been so thoroughly debunked
is that people are skeptical in in
europe and in canada
if you say to someone that you're going
to solve their problem through
prayer people are apprehensive and
people
mysteriously are not apprehensive at all
they're not skeptical they're willing to
believe
in meditation without asking any of the
questions that they would they would
apply to christian prayer
so if you don't know i was scholar of
buddhism for many years i learned the
power language i lived in asia i did put
a lot of years a lot of work into it
um i don't get a whole lot out of it in
terms of what i do in my life now but
you can
learn from my experience i wrote
numerous articles that are still on
the interview that are still on the
internet and um
you know you can just watch the the
playlist the
the buddhist playlist on this youtube
channel i don't even know it's 100
videos deep
but sure there's there's plenty of depth
and plenty of breath there okay
all right so i'm gonna get back to
reading the book i think we'll wrap
things up
reading your comments now guys so
someone says that earthling as
smarminess makes him puke
ah and then he comments that earthling
ed loves himself
i don't feel that way about it i think
he's self-loathing
i don't think he loves i don't think
that you know
um i remember earthling ed talking about
confronting strangers on the street
about wearing fur
that kind of thing a very self-confident
person
i don't think earthlings is a
self-confidence person not at all i
think he's a self-doubting self-hating
person that's just
it's just how i feel about his character
just being real with you i think he's
smallery guy
and what was his actual name is gaunt
right wasn't that it yeah he had this
peculiar last name that
that draws attention to how gaunty is
you know has this name that seems like a
joke about how how kind of scrawny
is i don't you know i let me put it this
way too
he's not self-confident being the leader
of a political movement
i don't think he's so confident being
the manager of a restaurant
you know which is now part of his job he
said i don't think he's still comforting
any of the roles he's taken out and
look let's be real i don't think he's
well read i do not think he's well read
on any topic
like in politics you know he's well read
about venus he's not well right about
anything
you know so he's really kind of scraping
by i think he's a very shaky
you know a self-doubting self-hating
character and i don't dislike him for
that that's just my reading that's
what i feel about him um i think he's a
guy who's doing these speaking
engagements and feeling that he's just
very
barely scraping by by the seat of his
pants you know
um
yeah so you know i i just say and you
know um
what it is people like about him what
does they hope he'll accomplish
that's really the mystery to be unfolded
because i don't really see earthlings
making any false promises to people
um he just says give me your money and
i'll make it disappear
that's always promising and you know
people are still lining up to give him
to give him more money all right uh
someone asks
someone says that earthling ad is
promoted by the same people that
promoted tim sheef
yes absolutely true no that's actually
good that's actually an insightful
comment from frieda
the same people who would line up to
support timothy chief
in his period of vegan activism would
line up to support it
and they probably see him as a very
legitimate vegan actress
for that reason by that by that kind uh
by that
low standard uh great great question but
i don't want to do a one-hour
monologue on it what's your perspective
on the israel-palestine conflict
so i was joking that nobody ever asked
me this the other day you know
so here's someone here's the exception
to prove the rule uh i think a lot of my
my viewers cersei's already know my
perspective on that because i have made
videos
talking about it so that's one reason
why they don't ask about it
um but sure i mean you know everyone
seems to delight in pretending they're
an expert
on the israel palestine conflict and i
suppose i delight in feeling that i know
more than those who call themselves
experts
because sure i i think what's uh what's
said in the mainstream media is really a
joke
um everyone kind of blows the dust off
their file in the foul voice oh it's
time to pretend that we care about the
israel-palestine conflict again
and you know all that anyone is
promising certainly all that joe biden
is promising is precisely things will go
back to
business as usual the things will return
to normal
very few people are aiming at any kind
of um long long term change to the
status quo
uh to what you know frankly western
democratic political leads have gotten
used to over
over recent decades and that's why it's
most likely going to continue
what's what's the situation the status
quo for the last several decades it's
comfortable for hamas
it's comfortable for the plo i.e for the
elite members of these groups it's
comfortable for
washington dc it's comfortable for saudi
arabia who's being
less less heard from now now that joe
biden has broken it used to be that
saudi arabia was a significant
power broker um the only person who
brought any new
perspective any new hope into the
equation was uh donald trump's
son-in-law
what was his name the guy who married uh
the guy who married donald trump's
daughter
forgetting his name as soon as people
lose the power of life and death over
you you don't care about their political
offense
anyway donald trump's son-in-law he
really did negotiate some new
new settlement he was he was making big
waves out there and changed the status
quo which was
interesting to see but um it does
it doesn't seem uh it doesn't seem now
that anything will change under under
joe biden
and i mean the other person here is
benjamin netanyahu
obviously nothing is going to change
until benjamin netanyahu leaves power
so netanyahu's career is on its last
legs
nobody knows when he'll retire or when
he'll go to prison but
anyway look you guys can watch her rats
um
but yeah sorry i stated i didn't want to
get into a one-hour discourse on it but
sure
i i suppose i'm i suppose i'm denying
you the opportunity to hear what i have
to say about the israel mountain
conflict
[Music]
so someone yes that's right uh kushner
was the guy's name
yeah google it yourself people
you get a lot of great suggestions for
this to google from here uh
someone uh silly man ali says he would
never give to
charity unless it's really important if
i know exactly where the dollars are
going
yeah well i mean i i think that
that kind of transparency keeps everyone
involved honest it keeps everyone
involved sharp
um the people spending the money need to
know what they're doing and why you need
to have a very clear sense of purpose
to be in the nonprofit sector you need
the discipline
to uh to really serve a function with
your with your journey
okay yeah so someone comments that he's
learning languages with the
michelle thomas method yeah
and then it's a bad method well you
sound like you've seen my videos
giving you suggestions on how to learn
languages already
[Laughter]
all right
uh okay so edgy intellect asks i'll
answer the briefly before i read this
this passage here
move on to the next and i presume found
but i was gonna cover
on my list of things to do in this live
stream i was gonna talk about napoleon
uh napoleon's younger brother and we we
didn't get to it so
here all right we'll we'll see we'll see
how how long or uh
how short a shrift i give to salist here
so um a quick question here do you think
indigenous traditions can be preserved
without the religion
guys the year is 2021 any tradition that
exists in the world today
will have been significantly uh adapted
and reinvented for the 21st century
uh look at japan you know look at the
reality of the shinto religion of japan
look at animism in south korea it's
partly traditional and it's partly
modern no it's not possible for
indigenous people to go back to human
sacrifice
it's not possible for indigenous people
to go back to slavery and
to my knowledge nobody is even proposing
that there are some indigenous people
who had
you know ceremonies that involve
torturing people
torturing people to death sometimes and
someone's just torturing people as a
right of initiation
nobody is even discussing this so no i
mean in this sense the idea of tradition
tradition the idea of cultural
continuity it's it's kind of
irrelevant and you know keep in mind
culture is something that we are either
producing new
here and now in every generation or else
it is something dead
it's something that exists in a museum
behind a you know a glass case
so it's it's one of the other now look
sorry someone just mentioned uh
uh chinese legalism what do you think
what do you think about the kung fu
culture
in china today people learn kung fu in
the chinese army
you know i learned there's a modernized
version of kung fu
and then there's an historical tradition
of kung fu that you can read about and
you can see in a museum you can see it
in movies but you know this is the sort
of thing that happens all around the
world but the question is are they going
to have their own culture
which is in large part can be something
they generate that's original and new
now for the 21st century but that's
distinctively theirs and makes whatever
use they can
of those traditions traditions they will
very likely discover by reading the same
books i read
if you want to know what traditional
cree scripture is like let's put it that
way they're myths and legends
you got to read the same books i read
let me just mention you go to the
university library and get them off the
shelf
that's now you could take that and you
can make you can make a new movie you
can make like a disney style movie if
you wanted to with
with uh creed so many of them they make
a better movie than bambi or dumbo
honestly i mean
you know some of these legends you could
you know breathe new life into them you
could make them
part of our culture today it could be
better than batman you know what i mean
you could make a new popular culture
that's really
uh infused with and inspired by that
indigenous tradition but it will be in a
very large part
you know an act of original creation um
to give you another example
what if you want to take shakespeare to
japan
how do you make shakespeare meaningful
to a japanese audience today you may
ostentatiously use some of the
aesthetics
of a medieval europe or renaissance
europe
i mean you might go back earlier i've
seen versions of hamlet that really
put it in the dark ages instead you know
they wanted to have that you know
14th century aesthetic even though the
play isn't set in the 14th century
but you know you you may you may want to
aesthetically evoke that but in a large
part you're gonna it's not just gonna be
a translation it's gonna be an
adaptation and a reinvention to say
we're taking hamlet and we're gonna
we're gonna do something with it that
means something to japanese people today
so that's that's the kind of thing
that's that would happen if it's gonna
happen
with and for you know indigenous people
in
in canada or in uh you know
the deserts of the united states or
something you know it's ridiculous to
think that these people
want to live in a museum or they want to
live their lives in a backward-looking
way
indigenous people are people you know it
comes about
you know they also want to cut down the
forests and make money out of the wood
and they you know
they have the same desires and needs
that everyone else has it's not that
they want to
live in a forest forever just because
they're indigenous and never forget i
mean the indigenous people of
germany are german the indigenous people
of france are french indigenousness
is not unique to minority or conquered
or
oppressed traditions and you know if you
ask where is german culture today
well in some ways it's everywhere in
some ways it's nowhere um
you know most of the storybooks we have
are actually french in origin for
children
even the ones that we think are german
because they were written down by the
brothers graham
but you do have this tradition let's
just hyphenate it and say you have a
french and german tradition
of of children's stories and you know
like when we think of cinderella where
does cinderella take place the little
red riding hood
where does it take place it's some idea
of the european past
so that is french culture and that is
german culture
as i say actually most of those stories
are more french than german but some of
them are german
um uh anyway sorry
rapunzel story of rapunzel um
rapunzel rapunzel let dinner where does
that take place and what does it mean
today
i mean can you take rapunzel and make it
more meaningful
than batman or mickey mouse or miss
piggy and if you can't get off the
microphone or get out of hollywood or
you know
quit and find a job you know that's
that's the kind of challenge so just say
indigenous people are people
indigenous culture is culture it's not a
different challenge it's the same
challenge
um i got some irish viewers
you want to make traditional irish
culture matter you know
huge you can you can you can get into
the you know the the the
you know the epic poetry of ireland
written in ogum uh not really it's kind
of an inside joke with linguists but
anyway they used to write
this writing system called augm which
they used for uh gravestones but anyway
they didn't actually write literature
anyway this you know you have this
pre-modern you know tradition
okay you want that to mean something
today you've got to make it meaningful
to people
it's it's a big challenge now if you ask
me am i
am i optimistic about that no i'm not
it's i i'm from my perspective i'm
living in a very
saddening period of cultural stagnation
and what am i supposed to give my own
daughter
to read you know what video game am i
supposed to give my own daughter to play
you guys know i tried to create my own
holiday out of soccer
but i think there's very little that's
meaningful that you can give children
and that's
it's not easy for you to give something
meaningful to uh to my audience as
adults
okay guys so we did not get to napoleon
today so i get napoleon can be
topic number one for next week i want to
give you guys a reading from an author
that i had only heard of
quite recently salust s-a-l-l-u-s-t
and i'm going to read you a passage here
from salast
um so look salust was incredibly
influential and incredibly important
200 years ago probably still 150 years
ago on that
when exactly his fame started pardon me
started to fade i don't know
i've been gonna read you anyway i think
you will see right away
uh salust is both of political and
philosophical interests and he writes in
very blunt
very simple latin so he was also one of
the texts that was given to beginners
and the language many quotations from
salas and so on again
so apparently he was easier to read than
cicero but in many ways his work is kind
of
linked to cicero so this might have
prepared people to go on and read cicero
and cicero was
idealized as the perfect latin author
the perfect stylist
who everyone should imitate in their own
in their own writing and in their own
way of thinking
too uh cicero was that kind of ideal so
anyway but this is salis
who was alive at the same time and he
was in many ways actually an enemy of or
a political opponent
of cicero's okay so i begin my quotation
quote i say this because just as the
human race is composed of body and soul
so all of our accomplishments and
pursuits follow either
our physical or spiritual nature and so
it is that outstanding beauty
great wealth even physical strength and
other similar things
quickly pass away but the extraordinary
deeds of intellectual talent are
just like the soul immortal simply put
just as there is a beginning so there is
an end to the benefits of body and
fortune
all that is born dies all that grows
grows old but the soul is incorruptible
eternal and the director of the human
race
it guides it has power over all things
and is not itself controlled
all the more surprising then is the
depravity of those who are devoted to
bodily pleasures
and pass their lives in luxury and
idleness but allow their intellectual
talent
which is the best and most noble part of
human nature
to grow torpid with neglect and
indolence
especially when the rational soul has so
many different ways to attain the
heights of glory
goes on he is really not happy with what
uh
what rome has become uh in his own
generation
but of all the paths to glory it seems
to me that at the present time
political office and military power
indeed
all public service is utterly
undesirable
since the honor of public office is not
granted for virtuous action
and those who use fraud to enjoy these
offices are not secure or more honorable
because of it
this is because the use of force to rule
over one's country and subjects
even though you could and might correct
abuses is still a risky thing
especially when every change of
circumstances brings with it
slaughter exile and other acts of
hostility
so he's saying here somewhat indirectly
every time there's an election or
every time there's a change of
circumstances uh in rome
there is slaughter exile and uh and
other acts of hostility
um on the other hand it is the height of
madness to labor in vain
and to acquire from one's efforts
nothing but exhaustion and hatred
unless of course one is possessed by
some dishonorable and dangerous desire
to sacrifice one's self-respect and
freedom to the powerful interests
of the few so again this is
interesting because sallust describes
catalin's rebellion or catalan's
conspiracy
as the poor rebelling against the rule
of the few
and the few means the senate
the senate which is comprised of the
rich ruling class of rome
that he has just been complaining care
nothing about
developing their intellectual talents
you'll see he gets he gets a little bit
more vicious here in complaining about
his his uh
other members of his generation in rome
but there were other activities that
employ one's innate intellectual
abilities
and preeminent among these is the
reporting of historical events
i think i will be silent about its value
because others have written of that
and because i do not want anyone to
think that out of vanity
i am extolling and praising my own
endeavor which is of course
exactly what he is doing um i also
believe that
although my work is difficult and useful
there will still be those who will
stigmatize it with the name of idleness
because i have decided not to
participate in politics
these are the men who think that the
most important activity is to
court and greet the people and to seek
influence
through dinner parties he really hates
this throughout his writing salas
he hates these people who spend all
their time going to dinner parties
flattering uh one another drinking
alcohol and sleeping with prostitutes
here prostitutes don't come up in this
passage but this is this is his percent
of his perception of the life of the uh
the political elite in rome
and again sorry interesting question
whose perspective of this kind could we
read today
um i do not know about the private life
of donald trump
or the private life of joe biden or
bill clinton but actually the complaint
here
about certainly we know that about jfk
jfk had problems with drugs and alcohol
and dinner parties and prostitutes
yeah yeah we we know you know the
archives are kind of open on that
so some of what salas is saying here was
certainly true but some people in the
political elite
i don't know if you can believe
everything that is said today about bill
clinton but bill clinton might be pretty
close to the the bottom of the barrel
uh on the list of most most immoral uh
american presidents in that sense
i realize he is not remembered that way
today but anyway uh i continue
so anyway um but i asked them to
reconsider the circumstances in which i
attained political office
the kind of men who could not achieve
the same thing and the class of men
who entered the senate afterwards if
they do
then i am sure that they will conclude
that i changed my mind for good reason
not out of idleness and that the outcome
of my retirement
will benefit the state more than the
busy participation of others will
the following supports my claim i have
often heard that in the past
maximus scipio so scipio is how we
pronounce energy obviously this
scipio if you know the letter c was
never pronounced as a
soft see any john anyway so this is
scipio africanus famous person
um and other eminent men of our state
used to say that their soul was most
irresistibly fired to accomplish acts
out of manly virtue
when they gazed upon the wax images of
their ancestors
to be sure it was not the wax or the
image that had such power in itself
but the memory of things done that
nourished the flame and the breast of
extraordinary men
and that flame did not die down until
their manly virtue
had equaled that fame and glory but who
is there today with our contemporary
morals
pardon me but who is there today with
our contemporary
morals that would rather compete with
his ancestors
in moral fiber and hard work
than in wealth and ostentatious
consumption even the so-called
new men who before with their virtuous
actions
used to surpass the old aristocracy now
use underhanded fraud and open violence
in their struggle for military power and
and to obtain
political offices rather than decent
moral practices
it is as if the praetorship and the
consulship and all other offices of this
kind
were in themselves noble and magnificent
things
and not things whose value corresponded
to the virtue of those who held them
but i have digressed too far and freely
in expressing my contempt and disgust
for our political morality i now return
to our subject
salist on the political reality uh
pardon me
on the the political reality and the
political
morality of his times